Let's open the computed property one dot html.
And here we have three form elements a title selection,
name and email inputs. And below that we have
an alert showing the title and name in uppercase and lowercase.
Now here if we change the title we cannot see any
changes in the alert but once we update the name
the changes reflected in it.
So let's go to our editor and then open computed property one
dot html
And here we can see each form element
is bound to variable using v model directive. Then in
an alert we have two paragraphs each contains title
concatenate with name converted to uppercase and
lowercase. Although this only simple logic but we need
to consider that our view or our templates should
only be concerned with displaying data to the user.
That's why we will move them into vue
option.
So let's jump to the script section and here we
can see that the title is outside the vue instance
That's why it was not reactive
now let's add methods property.
And inside that we can define a method
let's say upper name
then let's move this expression
inside the upper named method
add return in the beginning
the title is outside the vue instance
So we don't need to make any changes.
But here the name is in data property.
Inside the vue option scope we need
to call it by explicitly add 'this'.
So this dot name. Hear in the template we can
now call the method upper name parentheses.
All right
Let's also move this expression but now we will place
it in computed property. Back to script section and here
in vue option let's add computed property
and in this property let's define a method
I'm going to call it lower name
inside this method let's add return then paste the code.
Don't forget to add this before the name
here in the template
we can now call our method or function that we defined
in computed property just like the lower name.
We don't need parentheses and vue js will automatically
invokes the function. Now before we run this
let's also add console log in both upper name and lower name
and here let me add computed to distinguish the
method call. Let's save switch back to our browser.
Let's open console
and here
Let me put it on the right so that I can see the log.
Here we can see upper name and computed
lower name called on the first load.
Now let's select the title
and here we don't see any changes
on the alert as well as in the console.
The title is not reactive variable
that's why it will not trigger an update on the view.
But now if we update the name
the title in the computed property instantly change
this because changing the name will trigger an
update for the computed property.
And here we also see the upper name
and computed lower name being called
every time I hit the key.
Now what if we update the email
as you can see in the console only upper name method
being called this because the variable email is reactive
and it will trigger the view to be refreshed.
Because in the template we call upper name
that's why this method will be called. The computed
lower name it's not called because as I said the
value is cached so that the function will not rerun as
long as the dependent property is not updated.
I hope you get the idea.